---
title: Hello World with Maki
description: A simple guide to building your first Maki app.
source: https://github.com/martindale/maki/blob/better-splash/source/tutorials/hello-world.md
edit: https://github.com/martindale/maki/edit/better-splash/source/tutorials/hello-world.md
---
Building an average application with Maki is incredibly simple.  We'll get a web
server set up using [the built-in HTTP service](/docs/services#http), and edit
some content on the page to say "Hello world!".

If you're not an experienced developer, you should first read [Developer
Basics](/tutorials/developer-basics) and [Initial
Setup](/tutorials/initial-setup) to get familiar with the tools we'll be using
here, including [the terminal](/tutorials/developer-basics#terminal) and [code editors](/tutorials/developer-basics#code-editors).

### 0. Install Maki
As with all apps, you'll likely want to start a new folder to contain your work
and install dependencies.

```bash
mkdir hello-world           # creates a `hello-world` directory
cd hello-world              # move into the directory we just created
npm install martindale/maki # install Maki using NPM
```

### 1. Build the App
Maki comes with a pre-configured website you can use as a starting point.  To
use it, we'll need to create an instance of a Maki application.  Let's create a
new file, `app.js`.

```bash
touch app.js
```

Now in that file, add the following contents.

```javascript
var Maki = require('maki'); /* pulls in the Maki library */
var app = new Maki();       /* creates a new instance of Maki, and calls it "app" */
```

### 2. Create Content
Maki's pre-configured website needs to be extended with your content.  To modify
the index page, we'll simply create a new file in `views/index.jade`.  The
`views/` folder doesn't exist by default, so you might need to create it:

```bash
mkdir views
touch views/index.jade
```

We've just created the `views/` folder and placed a new `index.jade` file inside
of it.  Let's add some content.  Open `views/index.jade` in your editor, and add
the following.

```jade
extends node_modules/maki/views/layouts/default

block content
  h1 Hello, world!
```

In the `block` keyword, we've specified that the `content` section should be
filled out with our HTML.  This uses a simple but powerful markup language known
as Jade.

You'll notice we've used the `extends` keyword to select one of Maki's internal
layouts.  This is just a default, and you can override it by creating your own
layout (or copying Maki's and modifying it) in the `views/` folder.

**For convenience**, you can even use `maki.bootstrap()` to automatically create
the files locally for you.  This is useful when you've got a list of Resources
your application will expose!

### 3. Run the App
Finally, we'll simply start the application.  Since Maki has the HTTP Service
enabled by default, it'll automatically be available to your web browser.

```javascript
maki.start();
```

You'll get some output that looks like this:

```
[SERVICE] [HTTP] listening for [http]       on  http://0.0.0.0:9200
[SERVICE] [HTTP] listening for [https,spdy] on https://0.0.0.0:9563
```

Simply click one of those links and your browser should open and you'll see your
"Hello World" content.  Congratulations, you've just built your first Maki app!

## Conclusion
In the end, your directory structure should <abbr class="tooltipped" title="This illustration was generated by `tree -L 2`">look like this</abbr>:

```
.
├── app.js
├── node_modules
│   └── maki
└── views
    └── index.jade
```

The contents of each of the files you've created, `app.js` and `views/index.jade`, should look like this:


**app.js**
```javascript
var Maki = require('maki');
var app = new Maki();

app.start();
```

**views/index.jade**
```jade
extends node_modules/maki/views/layouts/default

block content
  h1 Hello, world!
```

That's it!  You're on your way to a fully-functional app.

**Up Next:** [Adding Resources](/tutorials/adding-resources)
